and we're live hello Justin Ren hello
what's going on buddy got a book in
front of you I do I just got a couple of
notes look how organized you are with
your tabs yeah I've never had tabs of my
wife yeah this is actually from James
clear have you heard of him
atomic habits New York Times bestselling
author I didn't play am I talking about
him at all but uh but the the notebook
is yeah oh so you bought one of his
notebooks yeah it goes along with his
New York Times best-selling book called
clear where you put down your daily
habits and then you just kind of can
check them off as you're doing what's
your deal what's your daily habits I'll
have a morning routine where I wake up
and where I'm at I have a peloton so I
jump on that for like thirty minutes
right in the morning right when I get
out of bed right when you have that well
right when I get our bed I do 15 minutes
of breathing just breathing yeah but I
do like five minutes I do that to my
cell and in bed there you go yeah
drifting awake awake for if it what kind
of money what kind of breathing you're
doing so just kind of focused where I
breathe in six to eight seconds and kind
of count the in-breath then kill the
hold and then count the exhale so he's a
meditation hmm and he'd do that for 15
minutes everything when it's three short
ones back to back to back there through
headspace and actually just got a new
phone I don't have the new heads faced
downloaded but I have three five-minute
breathing techniques that are really
three to five minutes each so sometimes
it's only like nine minutes and what do
you get out of that for me I think I'm
just kind of setting the tone for the
day mmm and just kind of clearing my
mind instead of first thing I used to be
bad about this
first thing waking up I'd grab my phone
everybody does that and then it would be
emails text messages notifications yeah
and then you're starting your day
reactive instead of proactive like what
you're saying Justin around like
thinking that wake up do that I get on
the peloton right after that I try to
drink a liter of water now you got me on
this layered superfood it's a girl like
Jane get going with his coffee
particularly his turmeric yes this is
this is my first time that's always out
so good for you yeah first what tumeric
is amazing for you fight off
inflammation and this
with coffee as well so I mean I taste so
good have you had the hydrate not the
coffee but the hydrate is that another
one of his products I have not tried
that oh my gosh it's so I should write
it for you um we I'm in California and
we had this very setup but a buddy of
mine walked across America for fight for
the Forgotten he heard us on the show
you know him I didn't know him before
the show so he said I'm gonna walk
across the entire country for the
pygmies right Wow yeah and which was
wild he had already done something you
the bull year before for the Paradise
fires he's a professional drummer mm-hmm
actually you got to meet him right yep
he's one of the cowboy had the Stetson
he's the second guy that I know that
walked across America this year Mike
Posner is the other one we were talking
about coming on Mike Mike and I have
been going back and forth he got bit by
a fucking rattlesnake Jeremy has some
wild stories he actually just started
this adventure coffee brand his is his
drum companies called beats from the
core like mains from the drum corps and
then he had beats for a cause and so
last year he did it for the Paradise
fires this year he did it for fight for
The Forgotten I can't believe how many
people I know that have coffee company's
immortal coffee Lera Hamilton Coffee
tape Fletcher and Keith Jardine caveman
coffee black coffee all those guys I
love the black rifle coffee guys there's
their stuff is they shit shit will shops
through black rifle yeah is he just got
a you know we just had our team loaded
up actually the documentary team that I
know kind of threw you because they do a
lot of your net yes special they do all
my special yeah as they've done
everything since they're the best
they've done everything since 2009
everything that I've done mmm
positive image my boy Anthony Giordano
who is director of the UFC he's the best
yeah he's awesome I've gotten to meet
him a time or two and then Brady I've
gotten to spend a lot of time with vice
president and he's come to Uganda with
me he's conscious Colorado and the
effluent Addison hey how are you
physically cuz you were to were saying
that you had some crazy parasite yes I
have a lot of stuff that's still being
tested James so that's actually well
first reason I came
a little bit in my last week for Thea
went up to reading my first time up to
Northern California hmm is beautiful
gorgeous gorgeous the river right there
so green yes absolutely I didn't even
know that yeah and all the fly-fishing
yeah yeah
I've never gotten hanging a fly-fishing
but I love it looks like it's so uh yeah
it's not hard you could get it in a
couple minutes you're smart yeah I mean
you're an athlete you'd figure it out
quick well Jeremy literally walked from
the Brooklyn Bridge all the way to
reading the sundial bridge is 3100 miles
does he know about flights uh I think
he's only 35 hours his story's actually
really unique you'd like it he grew up
with well he was put in like special
education classes because he had
Tourette's really really bad dreams so
we had these tics the where he'd slap
his foot
what cause was that I have no idea but
he had these tics and the stutter well
through this walking through drumming he
thinks he started to rewire the neural
pathways in his brain because he's a
walk no the walk and the drumming so he
just did the walk I just did it and but
he finished the walk and he said
whenever he was playing stadiums
drumming right like that's the that's
the pinnacle of being a professional
drummer playing stadiums with tens of
thousands of people so he's back there
drumming and it's before his first time
he's ever come out and drummed that way
well he's drumming and instead of him
being in the moment thinking about wow
I'm at the pinnacle of my sport or
enough sport but of my art mm-hmm he's
literally thinking about how he wishes
there'd be a day that he could grab the
microphone and just state one clear
sentence where there wasn't a stutter
mm-hmm so he's literally back there he's
arrived or at least what a lot of people
say is his arrival first stadium tour
and then all of a sudden he's thinking
about just having a clear sentence in a
conversation with people there was
something that I just read really
recently about a new treatment for
Tourette's mm-hmm Jeremy would tell you
that it was drumming that really helped
him because make sense he went from
reading to up to Seattle he was in the
grunge scene and then I think his name
is Steve Smith or Shawn Smith maybe
Steve Smith
that started the Seattle drum school of
music a really prestigious school they
would send kids off to like Berklee
School of Music and then they would
graduate from Berkeley they'd come back
and they'd hire them as their
instructors well Steve Smith saw Jeremy
and said hey I want you to be an
instructor at my school and Jeremy kind
of laughed I can't read music I didn't
graduate high school how would I ever be
a drum teacher at the Seattle drum
school in music he's like well knowing
her I'll coach you for two years and
then you'll be a drum teacher lo and
behold two years later he's literally a
drum teacher there for ten full years a
person has that much commitment to
somebody that I want to coach you for
two years before I give you a job yeah
wild right that came as mentor that's
pretty sir love and I'm so he was able
to start having fluid conversations then
he did the Paradise fires fundraiser
then he walked all the way across
America I fell off a 40-foot cliff got
surrounded by coyotes out there he was
in Oklahoma and he came through our
offices and then he ended up in the
middle of nowhere Oklahoma in the
Panhandle and these cops came by and
said hey who are you because he set up
his tent in ninety percent of people
that do this walk they fell within the
first 400 miles yeah there's a long way
to walk oh yeah we still got 3,000
people that do complete it kind of like
Mike right they have an assistance
vehicle the whole way where they're
sleeping they're they're being fed or
they're they have some comforts and he
did not he just backpack this are you
saying Mike's a pussy about Mike I just
said what Mike is vehicle getting
assistance vehicle I think you're right
I guess he needed it when he got bit
mm-hmm
and so Jeremy didn't he fell off that
cliff he was he had a mountain lion that
uh I guess purred or whatever sniff that
it's a distant oh all right when he came
out he had footprints all around it so
he documented everything
pretty why on about coyotes huh yes
rounded by coyotes oh and a prison break
happened oh geez while he was out he
looks like a prisoner hey if there's a
prison break this fucking guy well we
told her well don't worry about it you
know if you hear sirens it's probably
the tornadoes because the bad weather
coming oh great Oh so a tornado siren II
thought you went off but is actually the
prison break
first time they had those in like 20
years but was the night he was right
outside there isn't so he's got some
stories man and then for me I came out
here I completed the walk with him I did
the last like day with him so 20 miles
mm-hmm I was sore for a week after just
walking up and down these hills really
I'm not a week 3 or 4 days a year and
really good shape I'm gonna good shape
but stop all this guy about this guy I
want to hear about your parasites oh
yeah so what's going on well you're
still more testing but they did find
something called schistosomiasis in me
so shish toe is from the tropical
rainforests of Africa I think that's the
only place that exists but it comes from
these snails and so because that
probably bathed not because I probably I
have bathe in the rivers their been in
the rivers going across you get a mouth
no they can get into your skin I was
real itchy for a couple weeks there and
what that was was some of the like
parasites I guess would you call it
there they're like egg sacs or something
that got on me yeah got inside of my
stomach my liver oh geez could be
potentially even in my brain in your
reign potentially so they don't know yet
well they what's today today's Wednesday
right one day I did my final exams and I
did three full days with his doctor dr.
Daniel Eamon he would be phenomenal for
the show by the way he's incredible to
to TED Talks millions of em stop you
you're such a great promoter or your
friends yeah sure divert and you want to
talk about them I want to talk about you
okay let's talk about me what's going on
with my brain saw him because I getting
jerked around by all these different
doctors it's this it's this it's right
that's this right and I've had numerous
endoscopy to go look in my stomach
because why am i throwing up and one
says it is an ulcer another comes out
and says your stomach's perfect inside
it's a little red but like there's no
ulcer whatsoever and so I have cysts oh
I've had an intestinal bacteria that's
really bad called Shigella I've had
malaria three times I've had dengue
fever so dengue was in me for at least a
month the CDC found it at me he's had
this parasite and you know for a long
time now how many months
illy six since April and
have you been able to train at all
during this time ups and downs so I was
at the police and fire training center
of Oklahoma City they're just helping
them there's some really great guys
there and I was helping them and the
fire chief ended up putting me in the
cold shower for like 20 minutes because
I got so what he said I got like ghostly
white and I started dry heaving and I
was just shaky although this is all from
your parasites yeah Jesus and so it's up
and down I'll start I'll start getting
in shape I'll start losing weight I'll
start I'll start feeling good and then I
just crash I've had shingles five times
Joe what the five times and what is not
this stuff well I'm starting to do
hyperbarics hyperbaric oxygen therapy
got a prescription for that and that's
been helping more than anything right
now
yeah I'm trying to have that morning
routine protect my sleep eat right my
wife helps me meal prep I have juices
all through the day at the superfood
coffee I'm doing all this stuff I can't
I was on 28 pills a day for four or five
weeks in a row just for this parasite
yeah well whole parasite cleanse because
and they have another site that they
haven't found or did they haven't like
that's not because I'm going so remote
Joan in the forest they think I could
have picked up something crazy so they
just did Lyme Lyme's disease test on me
this was on Monday so Lyme disease they
did a cheek swab from like genetics they
did hair so they cut off like six
different spots of hair glowing LOX
yeah so they cut that my wife was a mom
were teasing me cuz I was like crying
about it I was like don't don't cut it
here don't cut it here
so they took six spots of hair samples
from me blood urine stool samples they
did two different kinds of brain scans
on me so they literally injected
something that was very minor ly
radioactive in me yes that it could
light up all the different spots in my
brain activity so where there's too much
blood flow or there's not enough and
literally so one of the things I found
on the scan which already knew
but they can test not just stuff for
like CTE or mild traumatic brain injury
and TBI before autopsy now with these
brain scans they can also test for like
PTSD and so there's this there's this
diamond in the middle of your brain and
you're only supposed have a little bit
of activity they're just very very small
but if you have this what they call the
Ring of Fire this diamond of red and
white being lit up on the brain scans
that literally shows that you have PTSD
so I had to co2 Meyer in here do you
know who yes yeah
Dakota that was an incredible podcast
meant to text you out he's he's an
amazing guy and people haven't heard
that one go back and watch it it's one
of my favorites that you've had Dakota's
a legitimate hero but one of the things
that he was saying was that they
injected him and this do you member what
the blockers called that block his cage
ears it said whatever the blocker was
usually he described it and said it
completely stopped his PTSD yes
cured all of his anxiety the way he
began refined it Jamie just so he could
reference it
I remember that aside to my wife she's
in psychology right know she's gonna be
a counselor and I sent that to her
because they're talking about PTSD and
the teacher said oh yeah that's been
around for a while too and that's what
dakotas yeah I think the minute coil I
think they made a clip that Jerry
clipped cause did yes yes yeah cuz GB
lager King Leon
yes yeah that he said it just instantly
alleviated all of his problems yeah
which is insane I mean like wouldn't you
love that the miracle cure they give you
a shot boom your problems go away
absolutely didn't you say it last for a
year
I think that's six months to a year
depending on it kind of you have to have
other traumatic I'm thinking of doing it
even though are anything wrong
yeah I just want to feel great well this
is what's crazy oh and Dakota said that
but this doctor Dana a man who's got
like he's at 10-time New York Times
bestselling author and he's got a book
about PTSD and basically he was saying
but yeah that shot really really does
work and people have been doing it for
years and with veterans it's one of the
quickest do they think that you have
some PTSD yeah they so he was saying
this to watch Dakota said you just
you that up where or trigger that in my
memory where the most common PTSD is car
wrecks I think that's what to go to said
right yes this car wrecks cause the most
PTSD same spots and your brain that
diamond to fire and there's something
you can't avoid right you have to go
back and be in public transportation or
get in your own car do you have them
from car accident no not from car
accidents what do you think you have it
from from some tough stuff in the rain
forest whether it's Uganda or Congo
we've had to flee from a village
whenever a rebel group came into the
village next to us and they killed six
or eight people and we're all fleeing
across the river and these like little
pygmy dugout canoes which aren't big
enough really for me and we're trying to
flee across the river before the sun's
even up and there's like crocodiles and
hippos in the water and then and then a
couple other really terrible things I
mean I've helped kids that have died and
buried them and yeah dug their graves
and that's happened numerous times we've
had machine guns pointed at us I won't
get into that story too much but we
talked about that one of those stories
before yeah and someone someone I loved
was a bunch of people that loved her
with me and so that was really tough
because we were unarmed
and we're being threatened and so that
was tough
um and then and then some like childhood
stuff I think different kinds of abuses
that stuff like that there's some public
shaming and different things like that i
think i think one bullying moment that I
even kind of forgot about til going
through this with dr. Ayman was I was in
the locker room and this little guy
named Raiden that I've been hanging out
with a lot he was just beat up in the
bathroom I saw that video the video that
was online is a horrible video of these
kids beating him up but then I saw him
with you
yeah yeah so that's been fun what are
you doing with them just man it's it's
great working up the spirits yeah you
just wanted to to to rally around him
surrounded with love and side working to
ashen we're in the same town no shit
yeah in the same town Oklahoma State oh
so actually Jamie is it okay to play one
of those videos that I saved
it's called Raiden videos and it's the
first one but just sort of people that
haven't seen it a you and Dakota talked
about this an you and Laird
about the diffusion of responsibility so
it's yes and people can just stand
around and watch right well that's what
happens right and in the in the urinal
actually not this video but the next one
this one's a fun supportive one and then
this one right here is just him at the
urinal going to the bathroom kids you
know I don't want to watch this
just real quick after that there's um so
that's him at the urinal there's eight
to ten kids in the bathroom they
actually think up to twelve four or five
or just filming it and he's got special
needs he was born with autism deaf in
his right ear so he's got a hearing aid
he's diabetic he's got diabetes and his
family and he's been relentlessly
bullied since he was nine years old this
is him that there's so the bathroom was
on Thursday this is on Friday after
school three kids jumping them hitting
them from all sides for no reason for no
reason he's a big teddy bear and he just
his mom said since her picking him up at
school and kindergarten first grade
second grade kids would just walk up and
hit him in the stomach or punch him in
the arm
okay what's yeah we don't have to keep
playing it so but it's really cool that
you reached out to him yeah well they
they I guess knew about fight for the
Forgotten and we're in the same town and
so a dad reached out to Jim Stewart
you've met Jim he's our director and Jim
hit me up right away and said hey is
this a kid that we could we could rally
around though you could you know we want
to do all this we have a curriculum for
a bully prevention and I think character
development is bully prevention so yeah
good character you're not gonna bully
well that's one of the things that I've
always said about martial arts yeah
believe it or not like learning how to
fight is one of the best ways to keep
people from being assholes absolutely
which is so counterintuitive but it
really is because a lot of people being
bullies it comes from a lack of
confidence right and confident people
are generally pretty kind yeah
confident accomplished people and you
know yourself so you don't have these
need this need to improve positions you
don't have that insecurity yes right and
the other beautiful thing about Jim's
particularly jujitsu I think is that
everybody kind of boosts everybody up
it's a real family sort of camaraderie
feeling a real that those environments
every gym I've ever been to every
jujitsu gym is good they have this
family environment to it and it just
makes you feel like you belong somewhere
and you get used to being kind to people
nice to people even even if someone
catches you with a technique they'll
show you yeah they'll show you this is
you know you left your arm here when you
were transitioning and if you do that it
gets stuck and this is why I can catch
it yeah humble hearts yeah so with with
jiu-jitsu or with martial arts if you
hurt your training partner you lose
right the person that's helping you get
better yes and so as you help them get
better they make you better and it's
just give and take we're actually the
more you give the more you get in return
because you're making them a better
training partner a better person and I
think martial arts takes it to another
level I've done numerous sports my
parents I grew up with um being the
professional or official photographers
of like the Dallas Cowboys and the Texas
Rangers and the Dallas Mavericks and so
I grew up around professional athletes
but what's so different I think about
martial artists and why people love MMA
one because a sport so pure and it's
like a chess match and it's an
incredible sport but the athletes they
truly are more approachable and I think
that they're more giving and
compassionate and more community minded
and driven you know that other athletes
aren't but just a martial artist are so
more yes because they've had it drilled
into them from having mentors and other
black belts yeah they're on this
lifelong journey of even service to
others that's part of the black belt
journey and self-respect and discipline
and one of the things that bothers me
about all this trash talking lately the
trash talking trended Emma made that was
really I mean when people saw how much
money Conor McGregor was able to make he
came this promotion tool just and Chael
Sonnen was a part of it to just guys
just relentlessly talk shit about him
I'm so torn because in one on one hand
is very entertaining yeah and I do enjoy
it right but on the other hand I'm like
man that is the wrong message to send it
kind of removes some of the beauty of
what competition is yeah like what the
beauty of competition is to people
respecting each other but being aware
that they're you know they're going to
have to go to battle and you know
they're equally skilled equally trained
and we're gonna find out who's who's got
the more effective strategy or
implementation and here we go
now it's like you can't sell a fight
without some shit talking right it's
like it's changed from this martial arts
thing sort of this promotion of this
thuggish behavior which again
hypocritically I enjoy right I do enjoy
it
you know when people talk shit I clap my
hands and get a kick out of it yeah but
I'm a dummy one thing pretty cool about
jiu-jitsu what you're saying one
Raffaele wanted me to text me coming in
here that you wanted me to tell you
what's up so tell me I said hi
congratulations
yeah I'll tour world champion yeah
musashi talking a lot of shit about him
being on steroids yeah must not like the
squeeze man he is the mo he's the most
disciplined obsessed and yeah just
dedicated person about that's how you
become a champion I mean the way that he
eats the way these trained sleep
schedules everything around him being
the world champion and everyone else has
to kind of these and that goal that
dream accusations of steroids with no
proof whatsoever
seems unfortunate yeah you know I mean
in this all this Nate Diaz shit that
happened there's a there's here's the
issue for people to understand what
happened with Nate Diaz Nate Diaz tested
positive for a trace element of
something called SAR SAR M it's a it's a
type of it's it's basically a
performance dancing stuff substance but
it's it existed in in a miniscule trace
amount in vegan vitamin supplement and
the reason these things are being found
is that the tests that they can run now
the asada testing the equipment is so
powerful it's so much more powerful than
it's ever been before that the problem
is they're they're working with tools
that are almost too good so instead of
catching people cheating they're
catching people that just have come in
contact with something that's illegal it
might have been like this the tiniest
amount that was in a bin that they also
used to mix these vitamins they didn't
clean it properly you know miniscule
parts per million there's a little tiny
amount but these you sada machines will
pick that shit up so then it looks like
someone like Nate Diaz who everybody
there's some people that are beyond
reproach Nate Diaz no he's never been on
never Angie's not cheap that's enhanced
his performance
yeah well maybe we does but I don't even
think he eats meat I mean I think he's
very clean with his diet I think it just
seats I know he's eaten fish in the past
there's a Vice video of him out eating
with Bourdain and they're eating fish
yeah I don't know if he still eats fish
but he's very clean with his diet and
very clean with his supplements and what
he eats right will you talk about
jiu-jitsu and Raphael and just have
martial arts how it teaches you that
character development you're gonna like
this I got you a couple of gifts my man
I don't know if you ever seen someone
come in with a suitcase
I have studio you have yes but before
you give me these gifts I don't want to
lose track of what I was asked sure
about your health okay so what what are
they doing and what can they do about
what what you have so when you said you
might have some crazy shit mean you know
you might have a parasite they don't
even know yet yes so there might be in
that's why they diagnosed or in blood
urine blood stool hair and cheek swab
sample so it's possible that you have
something that like very few human
beings have ever had because they have a
deep end
right eeep jungle yeah how long does it
take you to get to where you go well it
depends on where where we go the best
place
okay a plane from Oklahoma City to
normally Chicago or Dulles or JFK or
Atlanta and then we go to Amsterdam or
London or is it Qatar Qatar
I think it's guitar guitar okay I think
and then we'll fly either from there to
Nairobi Kenya or Kigali Rwanda and then
from there you connect to Kampala Uganda
and then from there you get a private
like missions or humanitarian plane
that's just you and the pilot and so you
take that plane from there to you from
Uganda to Congo and then you land you do
customs and then you get back in the
plane and you go and you land on a
runway that normally they have just
cleared with machetes so many times you
flying you're flying from Oklahoma so
let's just say Oklahoma City to JFK
yep JFK to London to flings so2 to
London London to Kenya Kenya Kenya to
Uganda or Uganda
the kyv and then you get in the plane
again to go out to the ring so six
planes six flights at least five planes
how many days it's normally two or three
days geez
and then 30 hours or something of travel
and then after that you get in a car and
it could be six hours so where you land
used to be in the rain forest but you
drive six hours now to get to the rain
forest how come because it's
deforestation so bad the deforestation
in the last 25 years they've cut down
about the size of Texas it's a pretty
wild we've we've we've helped to replant
4,000 trees but that's not even
scratching the surface Dillon us who's
DeForest in everybody it's a lot of
Chinese UK and outsiders that come in
and exploit the rain force there's a lot
of mahogany in the area mmm
is it evany do the goober dry senses to
do this no they just do it just there's
send someone in and cut down the trees
so no one goes to do it no one stops
them and so they just claim the
resources they don't have on the border
they might have to pay some sort of
bribe or tax they call them that that or
taxes they call them that yeah dat
that's you gon and when you say taxes
and then from there that drive at six
hours sometimes it's taken 25 hours one
time and another time it took 47 Oh same
Drive 47 yeah why'd it take 47 oh I
think we helped get 40 something cars
out of the way that we're stuck in the
mud so it's really silty there you don't
call Congo roads roads I've never been
on tarmac and Congo actually that's why
I have been in on cement in Goma but
outside of Goma there are no concrete
roads anywhere tarmac roads so I've seen
an 18-wheeler or lorry
3/4 of the way sunk - where's up to
their window the driver's side window up
to silt and how they get it out I don't
know that one that one was just kind of
in the graveyard
that one was like done no one's getting
that thing out really yeah I mean you're
going around mountains and you look down
to the side and you'll see
were 812 vehicles that have flipped off
oh yes damn it there's some vice videos
of the craziest roads in the world a lot
of them are in Congo
some say Rwanda because they're so many
Hills it's the land of a Thousand Hills
mm-hmm and so there's so many sharp
turns then they take those turns at 40
50 60 miles so they'll literally just
fly off the mountain and so you catch
this parasite you've gone through all
these ten I mean this has been I mean
we've been talking about on the podcast
for several months now so for me hearing
that you're still dealing with it is
really disturbing well yeah what can
they do about this what I gonna do I
think getting off that cleanse I mean I
was on 28 pills for four weeks maybe
five weeks mm-hmm
and some of it were like antibiotics but
I have to stay away from certain
antibiotics here's the thing a couple of
things that I know I have PTSD because
of my brain scans and then they see in
my brain toxicity and so the toxicity
and my brain which kind of form these
little divots but not really divots it's
not really changing the biology or
makeup of my brain but it's just
activity of my brain isn't fully
developed right there where or it's it's
being toxins are there that are either
from meth Lachlan or from cipro have you
heard of cipro what is messy what's the
first one bethlo Quinton what is that
stuff that's a malaria drug oh geez no
malaria drug take for any reason really
that used to be the drug of choice for a
military now tens of thousands of our
military veterans if you look up
mefloquine toxicity military times
they've done two articles one was just a
month or two ago but the first one
showed that tens of thousands of our
military veterans have wrongly been
diagnosed with PTSD and it's been
because of this methyl O'Quinn so they
never saw war on the meth liquin
toxicity of the brain it's like this
poison for your brain and if you've
taken it for like six months you can
have it it starts giving you bad
nightmares
you can have different kinds of mood
swings and different stuff health joint
aches fatigue all sorts of different
things but basically what methyl Equinox
ISTE of the brain does well tens of
thousands have been wrongly diagnosed
with it when they take it for once a
once a week so you take the pill once a
week and that was why it was our drug of
choice instead of it being every day or
two times a day right you just take it
once a week well when I had malaria the
three times I was allergic to the normal
malaria medication quinine and art to
fan and some other drugs like
doxycycline and Malarone I wasn't
responding to those well I was vomiting
I was uh I was allergic to him so methyl
ik when my body digested the best I just
took it the best so three times I had
malaria they gave me two in the morning
to midday and two at night and so I'm
taking six and a day for five to seven
days and these other guys that were
getting Matthew Quinn toxicity were
taking it once a week for six months so
I had 32:42 in a week's time I had six
months in a week's time and I did that
three different times why are they
giving you so much it was what my body
was responding to against malaria the
first time I lost 33 pounds in five days
and so I was vomiting red and green
blood and bile I lost most of my hearing
my peripheral vision started
disappearing I had some called
Blackwater fever where my urine was
literally as dark as that that black
clock take pictures of it and I didn't I
should probably should have yeah it
freaked me out five days I didn't
urinate and then when I finally did if
he google Blackwater fever one in four
or one in two people that get it they
die you didn't urinate for how many five
days five days I couldn't be oh my god
they were trying to get IVs in me my
veins were collapsing oh Jesus
so that was that was pretty brutal oh
yeah man so I'm getting my health better
there because I do want to fight again
if it happened how can you if you have
this yes enough in your brain well I'm
journaling my road to recovery
but if they don't know what this
parasite is how are they treating it
like what are they
how are they gonna get hopefully I don't
find anything because I just got off
those rounds of so they're testing me
for Lyme disease they're testing me for
all these kind of parasites amoebas
bacterias you can get Lyme disease in
the Congo
well I've I've been camping out here and
I've gotten like bit by five or ten oh
wow so but yeah there there's these
wicked kind of ticks my record is
pulling five roaches out of my beard and
whatnot right so there's tons of bugs
there
do you know does they have does Oklahoma
have that Rocky Mountain I think so tick
no nothing nor the one that gives you a
low allergy have you had that one I've
been bit by that one I don't think you
haven't meat allergy though oh yeah
that's a crazy one what is it called
alpha gal alpha galactose it's a
something that it's the reaction that
this tick bite gives you it makes you
allergic to this specific element in red
meat Wow yeah you can only fish and like
if you try to eat meat you'll get really
sick Oh crazy that is crazy okay but
they're they're trying to figure it out
why and this is gonna be crazy why I'm
32 and I've had shingles five times what
my first time I got malaria I don't know
if you can see the white and my beard
over here mm-hmm but I got white in my
beard the first time I had malaria the
second time I had malaria
I had white come out my beard down here
Saudi bondage is freaking out yeah so
then now I've got shingles five times
and then this is gonna sound crazy but I
know I have to have a this might be too
much information but I know I have to
have a bowel movement whenever my nose
starts running mm-hmm
so literally whenever I have to go my
own style and running and running and
running how is that united I don't know
if that's what they're looking into mmm
like that that's it use your second
brain and so it's it I don't know
suggestion or stomach is your second
brain they said oh that's got a German
gut trust your gut yeah it's got
literally more neurons in your stomach
than in your brain really that's what
the doctor was saying I know that's a
case with your heart as well right
there's a bunch of neurons in your heart
that they're realizing now like that
whole idea of
trusting your heart trusting your gut
like these these thought processes that
people had might have actually been
based on some intuitive understanding of
how the body actually works that's
really weird
it is weird really weird strange
everything everything's connected
right and it's connected that's not
weird really okay and it makes sense
over tighten it
doctors in Oklahoma are like we have no
explanation for that and then the
doctors out here were like oh that's
because this is connected to this and
they did all my blood work even though
they did more blood labs before I ever
came out here like a week or two ago
they still poked me five more times to
get more blood work because well three
times they were drawing blood two times
they were putting that stuff in me so
they could do the brain so you're
getting better doctors on here yeah more
informed yeah more informed and then man
have you heard of hyperbarics
yes no um Uriah Faber used it quite a
bit after his fight with Jose Aldo
yeah when Aldo fucked his leg up yeah it
is like swole up real bad I'm telling
you this is one of the biggest game
changers I love the float go and float
tanks I've done it at least 50 times at
float OKC and Oklahoma
my wife and I that's our date night once
a week we go and we do that and I float
fight week at least twice a week I
really believe in floating hyperbarics
is unlike anything I've ever done and
felt immediate long-lasting benefits
from Rick how so was not I get better
sleep than I've ever gotten that was
instant almost I mean I noticed it the
first night the second night I've done
over 20 treatments now of hyperbarics
you get in the tank you put on an oxygen
mask and then they fill the tank up with
oxygen and you lay there for an hour and
a half to two hours some people only
takes an hour but I'm bigger and they're
taking it to a lower depth and then my
ears kind of mess up on me a little bit
on flights they kind of gets clogged up
or whatever because of the hyperbaric
chamber no it's just they've always done
that on planes and so it's like you're
in a plane when you're in the
hyperbarics and what it does is it
pressurizes the oxygen down into your
cells so it's literally going into your
mitochondria that's what the new studies
are showing now oxygen gets in there and
it promotes healing and in your brain it
literally brings blood flow into every
part of the brain that needs it
so it's one of the best things after a
concussion so I was with Raiden and
what's I'm one of those guys that
sometimes thinks everything happens for
a reason you know or there's there's not
a lot of quinces I just started
hyperbarics two or three days before I
met Raiden then I'm doing it and they're
saying it's one of the best things for
concussions Raiden gets a concussion
from one of those fights or maybe
there's one of the ones that wasn't on
the fight but they diagnosed him I was
with the doctors and his mom and his dad
whenever the doctor says I think he
really has a concussion did some testing
on him wrote a prescription and said hey
I really think he needs to do
hyperbarics that's one of the best
things for concussions now I was like I
just started and so literally that day
the doctor hands him a prescription for
hyperbarics and then I take him in there
and get hyperbarics and this is probably
the story I wanted to share with you
about hyperbarics the most there's this
kid named Caleb Freeman and he just made
NBC Nightly News
I think Fox News and ABC he's making the
news everywhere because of his comeback
story the kid probably should have never
been able to eat again on his own
especially never be able to walk his
parents were told that he would be left
in a vegetative state and if you have
that Caleb Freeman video because of one
he got in a vicious car accident 16
years old he had just heard driving he
was the number one cross-country runner
at his school but also in his district
and then he got in this brutal car
accident here's the video of him trying
to learn to put up the finger number one
again there's a he's trying to do a one
that's his dad kind of coaching him but
he was the number one cross-country
runner now he's trying to get him to do
a thumbs up and this is off and I've yep
traumatic brain injury driving down the
road hit hit uh what's a hydroplane he
got in a brutal wreck and they thought
he would be left in a vegetative state
for the rest of his life so you can see
right here his muscles are so atrophied
because he had been in like I think he
was in a coma or he was in intensive
care for so long and so his dad's trying
to get him to do a thumbs up you know
he's trying his hardest to do that you
can go to the second video and they're
telling them you should really try
hyperbarics they try everything you can
and so the whole community has rallied
around them in Oklahoma
he's from Newcastle where one of our
board members are from and they're
trying to help him learn to walk again
assist it I don't know what they have
him break his arm yeah he broke his arm
he fall down a song because in the other
picture soon what you didn't know
actually don't know post accident yeah
this is post accident so maybe this was
before that other video so video you're
trying to show them but trying to show
you both of these because this is how
far gone II was and then after 40
hyperbaric treatments they said get him
in there it'll flood his brain with
oxygen right when it has the oxygen
it'll reproduce the blood flow and
they'll bring actual healing into his
brain and so that third video is right
here he's literally he was the number
one cross-country runner at his school
so now he's trying to learn how to do a
cross-country again he wasn't ever
supposed to walk again on his own he
came in there to the hyperbarics
assisted like you saw where people are
assisting him on both sides he does 40
treatments of hyperbarics and then all
sudden he walks up and down the football
field
14 times unassisted nothing changed just
40 hyperbaric treatments so I felt like
you got to keep doing this yeah yeah
that next video is actually him that's
okay oh that's us that hyperbarics with
Raiden that's the young man that got the
concussion on the right in this video
right here I don't know if there's
volume but uh this is actually a pretty
special video this is after 80
treatments he's literally finishing his
cross-country run again and he was never
supposed to walk and that's after like 3
or 5 miles Wow and so and how's his
ability to communicate it's not coming
back he's actually texted me this
morning he text me that picture of us
and Raiden and his dad actually forgot
he goes he is weird where do we take
that picture again and or I don't have
it saved and Caleb goes it's in your
phone dad just look and so he's he's
able to recollect a lot of different
stuff that's a man
this is all something that your
experience again as well for your yeah
treatment for the parasites yep and I
I've I've literally never gotten better
sleep
I feel more positive when I come out of
it
and then I feel like I can focus better
because one of the things that they saw
my brain scans where I have PTSD and
then I have real severe EDD and they can
see that on the how my brain functions I
guess there's like eight different types
of do don't be brain me and why I think
you need to do it only one know what's
been dr. Raymond's awesome man and so
then I have that and then so going into
the oxygen they can see from scan one to
scan to how my brain is actually
functioning better and the spots with a
DD have kind of cooled off a little bit
the spots of PTSD have literally kind of
gone down a little bit
and so that was Caleb's story there's
also this girl named Eden Carlson in
Eden Carlson there's like a minute clip
on the New York Post and they did it on
YouTube
this girl drowned for two hours she was
facing float down in a pool or facedown
in a pool
her mom pulled her out of maybe 15
minutes she drowned for two hours
she didn't breathe she didn't have a
heartbeat
and then at the hospital they
miraculously got her back her story's
all over if you just google even was
dead for two hours two hours
Eden Carlson II D en Carlson she's the
first one to have brain damage reversal
scientifically proven they've done all
the MRIs and PET scans on the hyperbaric
from hyperbarics so the first things I'm
going to do form Wickham's I mean I
think this is worth trying to pull up
one of those videos it's New York Post
Eden
okay you can't pose the police that but
literally there's Eden Carlson video on
YouTube and it's wild to see how she's
recovered and how they've told her she
would never be able to eat again never
be able to go to school never be able do
that now she's basically a normal girl
you look at her there yeah so cute right
there little smile that's amazing her
mom is like a huge advocate for it now
and now let but with you what do they
have to do like they have to find out
whether on the parasites are stealing
your system identify the parasites
because it could be an unknown parasite
right well they know it's just oh and if
I've had she stolen me for as long as
they think they don't think it started
in April they think maybe that was
another not on Sep but took it to
another level when I went there and got
sick and it was brutal I mean I was
hugging basically the not the toilet but
the the latrine um while I was in Uganda
in April and May now I was just so sick
this hyperbaric is helping you but you
you're still not able to train right now
like you're not you're not like you
don't have a fight schedule ain't I
don't have a fight scheduled but I would
like to fight first quarter next year if
I can is that literally possible I mean
if you're not six months from now I have
another follow-up appointment here in
March and we're gonna have a lot more
data to show like from my blood work to
my and the bacteria in my stomach mm-hmm
to those brain scans are gonna be the
big thing that show how my brain is
started heal how my body started to feel
right and show my health just increasing
and so that's the goal I'm on this
mission to get get healthy so I can
fight again but also just so that can
function better yeah and have like not
these big swings so the hyperbaric
chamber is helping you yeah big but yet
you're still feeling some serious
significance just started the hyperbaric
sub month ago okay so I'm 20 treatments
in I need to get 40 done as soon as
possible and then they think I'll
probably do another round of 40 and then
yeah I mean seeing how how Caleb's doing
I mean Caleb told Caleb showed me this
this is wild I come in and I'm about to
get in the chamber with him and he shows
me his hand shaking and he's showing me
I don't know what that's called but it's
whenever
is that what Parkinson's and different
stuff like you have those kind of shanks
and your hand
sure or Alzheimer's or whatever that is
so Caleb's got that and he gets in the
chamber 90 minutes later we get out he
shows me his hand it's completely steel
and he can put contacts back in his eyes
whoa
but before there's no way at all that he
can get contacts in his eyes afterwards
his body's calmed down enough his brain
has enough oxygen and blood flow in it
that he can put his contacts back in
them that's insane yeah so Radin his
parents say that he was always up and
down in the middle of the night and that
they'd have to try to put him back to
sleep
and now he just wants you to sleep he's
asleep until they wake him up they think
it's helping with his autism his
diabetes his ac-1 levels or whatever
those are called those have started to
come down and what the doctors have told
us is like there's nothing better the
doctors take an oath that say to do no
harm
like that's first and foremost is to do
no harm and they're like if someone has
a concussion or if someone has autism or
if someone has this bacteria or a
parasite that might be in the brain
why not flood the body on a cellular
level oh you're gonna love this part
that can increase your your stem cells
by eight times in your body so it's one
of the best treatments for whenever you
have the stem cells injected in you
mm-hmm so I had the MSC's the
mesenchymal stem cells for my hip put in
my shoulder mm-hmm they said one of the
best things I could have done for it
would have been to get in a hyperbaric
chamber because that would promote the
stem cell growth and life of the stem
cells because their cells and you're
pushing oxygen into the cells you know
an increasing blood flow into it and
you're extending their life and helping
them reproduce yeah so it's one of the
best things out there Joe I wouldn't be
talking about it like this without
Raphael is getting into it Joe Namath
Joe Namath has his own clinic now for
hyperbaric yes he's doing that to
reverse his brain trauma football right
I read about that right and it's the
first time there's ever been documented
cases of brain trauma reversal
where if you can heal your brain you can
basically heal your life or have a
healthy brain you have a healthy life do
we need a hyperbaric chamber in here
yeah you buy portable units absolutely I
use something called a Sechrist which I
think you would really like it's the
hard chamber it's glass you have one in
your house no but the Sechrist one or
there's Joe Namath doing it I think
Michael Phelps does it you know getting
in the water look at that Wow literally
it's wild at how how much stuff it
actually so what's the prognosis like
with you with the doctors the the looked
for parasites they're doing all this
blood scan do they think that they're
gonna be able to straighten you out
they think so yeah I think they think
with doing a holistic approach where
medication can come in at a later date I
had this doctor that's all you have PTSD
here's these pills hmm oh you have
depression here's these pills you know
okay now now you're starting to have
anxiety for the first time in your life
you've never had it before here's some
more pills oh you think you have a TD
here's some more pills they put me on
three or four different pills at the
same time
smelling like a zombie you know like a
zombie I felt weird I felt like I
started having like electricity running
through my veins or something like like
my muscle started twitching my eyelid
was constantly spasming so the doctors
that have looked at this all the
different various ailments that you have
like and they don't want you to do pills
so what what do they want you to do and
what do they think is going to be able
to happen they think you'll be able to
fight again hum so dr. Ayman he's a guy
that says man our brains are the
literally you can live they can do lung
transplants right and heart transplants
and kidney transplants like you can't do
a brain transplant right and so he's
saying that anyone that's in a brain
damaging occupation and he said whether
that's fighting football or even being a
firefighter because that is a brain
damaging occupation you're breathing in
burning couches which are putting off
all these harmful chemicals and so he
said you want to protect it and promote
your brain health as much as you
possibly can right so he's a brilliant
guy and he's going to be on weekly calls
with me
guiding me keeping me accountable on how
am i protecting my sleep how am i what
am i getting to eat you know also
supplementation what's that one that you
were on here with Davidson Claire
talking about nmn it's like that rolls
resveratrol yes that's not drugs in
Occident yeah
well that plus some of the other things
that you guys were talking about like
they're all in his supplements where he
tells you go get these supplements from
here and here
and make sure that you're optimizing
your brain health so it seems like
there's a bunch of different things
going on yeah with the PTSD is PTSD has
to do with things you've seen and your
childhood but then you've got the drug
them the methylene toxicity of the brain
or cipro toxicity have you heard of
cipro what it does to you know what is
in row cipro is probably the number one
antibiotic for intestinal bacteria so if
you get an intestinal bacteria they give
you this and some problems with that it
kicks the bug out and whatever it is you
know it's like the number one thing for
humanitarians to take with you overseas
but but a huge huge but huge side effect
now is cartilage ligaments and muscle
tears oh I have heard of that I have
heard of people taking extreme
antibiotics for staph infections yep so
cipro is for staffs and then afterwards
so you're not taking it because you got
it wrestling you take cipro you clear up
and you go back into wrestling now
sending you tear your Achilles tendon
yeah and how long as long as it weakened
your ligaments it's at least for six
months they say but it could be from a
year or longer lot and so I took cipro
while I was in Congo for my gut health
and for in Uganda white or my left
labrum I came back I got another round
of sickness
I took cipro I come back I tear my right
labrum come back at tear my meniscus and
so they're like you probably definitely
have probably cipro and methyl in Texas
so did you get operations on your labrum
or your meniscus so you got your labrum
surgically repaired both of them
no just the left one but I need the
right moment
fuck yeah and then I got my meniscus
trimmed up geez oh man it's been it's
been wild you've been through the
wringer yeah it's been wild but it's all
been worth it like like this stuff that
happened with Dustin Poirier and khabib
and then Dana matching it I mean that
that blue as well explain what you mean
because people don't understand what
you're saying yeah do it Dustin donating
money for fight for the Forgotten and
Dana matching that money into you as
well yeah that's was nuts
so for that fight which was basically
the modern-day Rocky story the
undefeated Russian they're building an
arena for him yeah
arguably never lost around potentially
and or at least a fight and Dustin goes
there the underdog and he started the
good fight foundation his own foundation
with his wife Jolie and their awesome
I was actually on my first ever bow
fishing trip and I get a call or a text
Instagram message from Jolie saying that
Dustin her want to help us raise funds
for this fight so I get back to him then
they call me and I literally have a bow
fishing like thing in my hand was my
first time going I didn't get anything
but uh anyways they they say they want
to help us raise funds I'm like this is
awesome they put up a fundraiser for
twenty five thousand dollars to help us
drill a well for an orphanage so this
orphanage for the pygmies there it's a
school but they've all lost their
parents a lot of them because of HIV and
their water source was taken out by a
flood a torrential flood that happened
there so in the 80s they had built this
kind of sort of well it's more what's
called a springbok it was like a
mountain fed spring well the mud got all
in it busted up the pipes from the 80s
there was no way to recover that thing
so they needed a new one and so Dustin
decided to set a goal to help us raise
funds for twenty five thousand to be
able to put a big water tower with a big
solar system that put piped water into
the classrooms into their living
quarters into the kitchen or the
cafeteria
and so through the fight we had it
funded and then after that the phone
just kept coming in Dustin and khabib
exchanged shirts and then khabib said he
was gonna auction off his shirt and give
a hundred percent of it to Dustin so
that brought in a hundred thousand
dollars Wow Dana said he would match it
Dana matched it and so we're gonna be
able to drill seven wells now not just
one with water tower but seven wells
we're serving the other six right now
we're getting close to finishing the
first one so has this the parasites and
this disease is this in any way weakened
your desire to go back there
no not weaken my desire to go back there
just just influenced or encouraged me to
uh to be a little smarter when I'm there
what would you do differently just not
go in the water
mm-hmm I could stay in nicer places like
the doc team stayed in a hotel last time
and you didn't I actually did and that
was the first time I had ever done that
normally I sleep in the twig and leaf
huts I sleep on the dirt and if I'm
rained on I'm rained on and and I don't
use a mosquito net and things like that
just I wanted to live like they lived
and not have any of the real comfort
comfort sand luxuries and then then
wonder why why they don't have that or
this or another button yeah now I'm
gonna take my own food I'm not going to
eat the food there that can be
contaminated I'm gonna make sure
everything I eat and you know I have
clean hands before I eat it and I
normally do that but just
double-checking everything Purell eat
the food I bring sleep in a hotel and
just go on day trips there and that'll
probably be smarter anyways because if
we bring someone with us normally it's
just me going but last time we brought
Chris cyborg and she she helped with the
kid she helped drill two wells there so
I was awesome we're up to sixteen wells
now in Uganda Wow
61 total and we're about to get 30 acres
of land with the money that came in from
Dustin and kabhi but she concerned at
all about catching anything washers yeah
she got a little sick but I think it was
just from
this chicken though he had and that was
like chicken soup I don't think they
they may be cooked the chicken long
enough and so she got a little sick from
that but no I think I think going back
is going to be okay
and then doing strategic smaller trips
what really messed up Chris was so in
Uganda the pygmies lived in the simile
key national forest which was bordering
Congo well they were kicked out of the
Cong or the the rainforest by the
Ugandan wildlife Authority to protect
the forest you know they are the
protectors of the forest why do you kick
them out of the forest they're not
poachers they only take what they need
and they're they're hunter-gatherers but
they yeah anyways so they they got rid
of them in the forest put them behind a
slum in this little town and so they put
them on one acre of land over 300 people
over 300 people living on one acre of
land that's actually their land that
they can call theirs so we're walking
around and they did that six years
before we get there and the chief told
us that there's now 35 families only a
hundred and fifty-one people and that um
they're scared that if it goes another
six years that they're all going to be
gone that their people group won't exist
anymore
and so that was chief or King Zito that
told us that and so we're walking around
in Chris Chris kinda gets tripped up a
little bit on this mound she looks down
and she looks down and sees all these
mounds around her and she said what are
these mountains and the chief said
that's so-and-so and this is so and so
and like says a name and says a name it
was like we live on our grit on top of
our graveyard we don't have anywhere to
bury our dead Jesus Christ and so uh
over three hundred people on one acre of
land now there's only a hundred fifty
one people that's buried in the ground
right there because the slums threw out
their sewage and it goes right through
their land oh my god
so we've got them back five acres of
land right now but they're practicing
how to farm on that
and then we're about to get 13 more
acres of land and then they'll be able
to live on the five acres and have these
little plots of land for households for
a thousand two thousand dollars each we
can build them a home and then they can
start farming at thirty acres and we'll
want to expand that to 50 or 100 to
where they can have sustenance farming
to feed themselves and then they'll be
able to feed the community and sell that
and then be able to send their kids to
school with school uniforms and buying
school fees or paying school fees and
stuff like that Wow
yeah this makes you realize how easy we
have it that's what makes you realize
how easy we have oh man absolutely and
so that's why whenever you ask me like
does this make you not want to go back
I'm like me and look at the challenges
that they have each and every day have
you got everything that you catch over
there dengue fever malaria yeah what it
was how do you say anything dosto just
oh and this is a parasitic diseases like
a I think it's in the Fluke family or
it's a worm
yeah yeah and then hopefully I don't
have anything else besides that but this
toxicity stuff cipro or methyl and that
could be messaged your diet as well yeah
yeah my wife move up now I mostly I eat
meat but I mostly vegetables like more
of that like the small portion is meat
it'll be chicken or fish or something
lean mm-hmm
a lot of nuts and a lot of thick leafy
green vegetables and if you found that
that's how that's helped me well that's
helped me a lot you're juicing about yep
yeah juice well with uh with a Vitamix
oh so you get all the fiber in there as
well yeah the fiber Wow that's been
really good and then and then I've been
keeping myself busy if I can't go there
we're really starting to expand our
mission and vision here stateside mm-hmm
to bully prevention because Joe it's
nuts right now the second leading cause
of death so butch is Raiden's
grandfather and he is an old bull rider
and Raiden lives with with Butch and
Claudia's grandparents right now and
they found him within his forearm he
wrote I want to kill myself
and Sharpie and he's 12 he's 12
which said the first time Raiden wanted
to kill himself that he knew of when it
was whenever Raiden was 9 years old so
he's 9 years old and already suicidal
and Butch said that that just makes his
heart want to fall out of his chest you
know I'm his grandfather
how does my 12 year old grandson not
have enough to live for and the leading
2nd leading cause of death among kids
from 10 to 14 is suicide if you're
between the ages of 10 to 14 that's the
second reason and bullying is a cause
yes not most of its from bullying
because bullying is linked to the
increase and depression addiction
isolation do they think that the people
who do it is it because they were
bullied at one point time were abused
physically so they do think that an easy
way to remember that is hurt people hurt
people
right hurt people hurt people whether
that's an addict or muli
but here's a statistic from the CDC it's
funny the CDC found out that I had
didn't get fever and then also the CDC
did the study on bullying and the number
three at risk of suicide is the bully
the person that acts out by being a
bully mmm number two surprisingly is the
victim there the second highest risk so
then you think who's who's number one
well number one is actually the one that
does both
they are bullied and then they act out
by being a bully and so they're getting
it on both ends
no positive feelings at all negativity
this is huge what can you do for bully
awareness right like how can you how can
you prevent it or how can we mitigate it
yeah I think it's by promoting a culture
of cultivating a culture of kindness and
I know that can sound a little wimpy no
I don't think so at all yeah but if you
look at Rafael Lovato jr. he was bullied
because he didn't look like everybody
else George st. Pierre so a lot of
fighters are bullied most most fighters
I find
bullied you know not being the bully
right and so I think to cultivate a
culture of kindness there's actually the
school in Oklahoma it's pretty awesome
they're called Edmond Santa Fe they
selected us between a 44 applicants so
we were up against like Boys and Girls
Club and make-a-wish she's phenomenal
organizations Special Olympics and some
really really great charities and
nonprofits out there last year the
school selected a foster home and they
raised in a week this high school raised
two hundred and thirty four thousand
dollars a high school in their
philanthropy week because they wanted to
help these kids get a new like main
center among the foster homes so this
year they selected us because they want
to get our bully prevention program into
public and private school so what is the
prevention program like well yeah so
it's mostly character development with
bully prevention inside of it so it's a
12-week program and it's 12 weekly
lessons so we have it online it's
digital it's on our website fight for
the Forgotten org and if you click
hero's and waiting you'll find it that's
our curriculum what's called as heroes
in waiting and what that is is there's a
digital curriculum where I teach the
teacher and struck the instructor how to
instruct the lesson that week but then
there's a video for the parents and for
the students that's the weekly hero
challenge and so they get a weekly
lesson or Matt chat discussion and then
they get a weekly challenge which the
challenge will be something like
recognized when you're being a bystander
or my favorite is probably go out your
mission this week is that your hero
challenge is to go out and complete a
secret random act of kindness so the
rules are you have to be safe you have
to be smart but you have to be
completely anonymous and you have to go
out and make someone feel great and so
journal or report back to us you know
what did you do how'd that make them
feel how that make you feel how can you
build onto this for next week and you go
out and you complete these missions
because I think first you have to
educate the kids that they are part of
the solution and part of the problem
they just
to pick where they where they're gonna
be because in bullying if you stand by
and you watch if you laugh giggle like
in that video there's 12 12 kids in the
bathroom four or five are filming it you
filming it is encouraging it you
standing by and not doing anything
you're actually not an innocent
bystander you're a silent supporter
because you're standing there and you're
not doing anything they're actually
trying to pass laws about kids and
schools filming other kids getting beat
up and making them somehow a part of it
an accomplice yeah some way shape or
form because you are you're at least an
encourage er yeah and then if you stand
by and watch you are an accomplice
you're not doing anything it you didn't
choose it it shows you what happened in
those kids in the video that we're doing
those things to raid in therapy so
they're minors so I can't really talk
about what's happened but the school has
taken appropriate or at least in their
eyes appropriate and swift action the
parents are thankful to the school and
the school district for them taking this
serious I know that the the family has
felt this has been going on since he was
9 at least and now he's 12 so three
years and they say the only reason now
something's being done is because it was
filmed because it's on video and it went
viral but there's been some fun stuff we
pull up some was raid in pictures it's
another one recently with Dylan Danis
Dylan yes God jiu-jitsu lessons UK for
juju solutions for this young boy I was
also beat up in the bathroom and there's
a film of that as well you know I'm
talking about yeah in Dylan posted this
video too and he got over ten million
views yeah which was awesome in Raphael
no is actually going to scholarship
Rayden and his brother Brock with
jiu-jitsu lessons oh that's amazing so
they're gonna start doing martial arts
training after Raiden's done with his
hyperbarics and his Russian has settled
down he's gonna come into the mats and
be part of the kids program the little
warriors for for Raphael school which is
the best youth program in the state
that's awesome yeah that's awesome is
there a way to pull up some of those
pictures of of Radin and this is kind of
cool I'm gonna give you this because uh
Raphael really likes this and it's some
tenth planet guys
there's Raiden after after a actually a
press conference all the news wanted to
like post pictures of them or they
wanted to get exclusives and so as
parents are being chased all around town
people are literally posting their home
address online daxing them but daxing
the bullies mainly saying here's the
twelve-year-old girls address and go go
find her
you can go through a couple more of
those pictures there's some pretty cool
ones where he's eaten check fly yeah he
likes chick-fil-a a lot as deaths is a
chicken eaten full but there's at a
football game that Edmund Santa Fe
they've surrounded him with a lot of
love and then it's been cool like Emily
my wife has said oh here here's if we
can have volume on this this is pretty
cool making you a video I am introducing
Raiden to what how this
he asked me what hummus is so we got him
some some carrots and hummus the chips
are for me that you packed us and all
right my man try carrots and hummus
[Music]
I actually really good really good
yeah so what's the book yeah so this
right here is the jujitsu planner and
what it does is you have actually a like
a training autopsy and you you take
notes what you're lessened of what
you're learning the techniques you're
learning and this is out of tenth planet
or at least the guys that created this
bin is a tenth planet Austen guy a guy
named Zack more that's there too so he's
available online so anyone yeah I'm one
of these it's available online whether
they get Instagram its jitsu planner
where's the website I think it's Jitsu
plan or calm or jujitsu plan org and so
and they give 10% to fight for the
Forgotten now it's pretty cool so that's
yeah 10% of the proceeds go to us but
try to opt in so game it's got a
training schedule shows you when you're
training so you to mark down so you're
essentially you're held accountable for
your lessons yeah what is this an injury
report pay attention to your body
interesting
you have supplements you can put down
there like showing you like what's hurt
what's going on and then you have a
competition tracker so you can record
your opponents how it went and you can
also add a tournament like start
scouting out your competition and then
they're gonna have it to where they they
make new additions and things like that
and so as it grows and as it scales
every planner they have for now on 10%
is gonna go to fight for the forgot this
is very interesting man
training autopsy yeah I like it yeah you
dig it session notes what was drilled
strengths weaknesses role notes and then
for next class I like this this is
listen man writing things down you know
anything you can do where you're
focusing on something and trying to
prove if you can write it down it's
better it was this inspired by the the
kind of book that you have would you
exactly a book was called again
this one's called clear it's just a
habit tracker and then you have like a
journal in it too
and I really like that and I like how I
also have another one called the full
focus planner in that anyway you can
plan out your day your
week mm-hmm and you break it down and I
can train track my food my training all
my important meetings and for me writing
it down physically is better than having
it digitally yeah I just remember it
better me too
if I know if I haven't written it down
I'll probably forget it I keep notes
like comedy notes I keep them on my
phone but then when I go to do a show I
always write it out always it's really
smart
they say the writing things so there's
something about physically putting a pen
to paper then like really commits it to
memory than anything else yeah so that's
why I have those two actually three of
another one called the five-minute
planner I think three journals around
with Rios I do
the habit tracker the full focus planner
for my daily and weekly schedule the
habit tracker that I can also just take
other notes and then the five-minute
planner or five-minute journal you start
off with what three things what would
make today great three things and then
three things actually start with three
things you're grateful for so you write
that down then three things that would
make today amazing than a daily
affirmation and then at the end of the
day what three great things did happen
today and then the very last one is how
could you make today better and so kind
of this reflection of I could have done
this better today known so that way
you're kind of keeping yourself
accountable and that and I also have
something else for you my man
I can't come bearing gifts
yeah that's what the fuck is that dude
this is called a Bushwhacker I think
something they used in the Congo
no no we'll get there what in the fuck
bro so that is like I said be careful
cuz that thing is really sharp the
weight behind it I don't want you to cut
yourself okay that's like a giant wood
handle like you could double fist this
sucker yeah Mike Jones knife and tool
you actually have one of his knife yeah
I do and he made this because he is now
giving 5% of all of his knife sales to
fight for the Forgotten and he was
turned on to us through the show this
one's another one that he made my friend
Mike Hoggard came
yeah that's that's what he said wow it's
got a built-in little sharpener yep
actually that's that's a knife or a fire
starter it is yeah oh it's a fire stick
and it's a hallucinatory there you use
that tie over the top oh it's also a
bungee okay now a knife itself super
sharp its Damascus steel oh it's pretty
and then that's his bow hunter style
knife mmm the wood is koa wood from
Hawaii so he thought you'd like that and
then he always has his little signature
smile yeah I follow him on the Instagram
yeah he's a great guy yeah the other
knife that Mike had made for me is a bow
hunter as well this is a beautiful man
thank you
thanks Mike - that's pretty man and
there's one more there from Mike Jones
himself so he did a thing called knife
for the Forgotten and he sold a hundred
percent of his knifes for a fight for
the Forgotten and so that one's a chef's
knife I thought you'd really like the
wooden handle is actually black wood
from Africa so it's probably from
Tanzania but it's a chef's knife and
he's got that smiley face in there but
it took him like 15 yeah I knew how much
you appreciate like craftsman work so
that took him 15 to 18 hours to make
that that's pretty it's a small handle -
it's interesting
wow that's beautiful thanks man yeah man
oh you like it
I'm done oh I'm not worthy well and then
that was just to set up this one was
this knife is what it was actually all
about but Mike said ah let me let me
throw in a knife or two because he
literally gives 5% of all his knifes
it's just one of the ones that was made
by the pygmies that was made by King
Zito himself it was just some scrap
metal it's not the sharpest knife and he
said it wasn't the best for me to give
to you but I thought it was the most
unique that's his that's his actual kind
of signature design that he puts in
there it's so light yeah it's crazy what
is this wood so it's a wood that's out
of the simile key national
forest and they've been collecting it
for generations people can feel this how
light this is light feels like styrofoam
it's quite easy so they have these
different kind of like almost quirk yeah
feeling knives or handles please tell
him I said thank you I will
that's right oh very nice of him Lindsey
i.t oh wow that's so pretty
so yeah that's cool man I was able to
got you one of those that right um and
then uh
Dustin Poirier one as well that's dope
beautiful yeah so what's the plans now
like you're you're going you're trying
to get your health back together and
when are you planning on going back to
the Congo again so I'm definitely going
to Uganda sometime soon hopefully well
if I could fight first quarter of next
year I how is that possible I don't know
but I'm being optimistic I'm not gonna
rush it but it's been over to you
shoulder surgery yeah that takes six
months anyway yeah so how you gonna do
that that's first quarter yeah forever
cuz we're almost in November so November
in two days it's true so December
January
okay now we're into the first quarter of
the next yeah they said structurally I
could fight with this structurally I
hate that word please no man come on man
I uh I need to go slow yeah also you
don't you don't fight for a while please
lie for a while yeah you kind of get
everything you gotta get hell order man
and that's what I've been telling people
and people are there's people are really
excited for me to fight but then also I
know I can hold it as people just need
fans yeah oh yeah well the holy they'll
hear this and they love you and they're
like Justin please don't
not right now yeah get yourself a
hundred percent back right so I guess
what we're doing is actually there's two
really exciting things for now you said
so what no um we're doing two things
back-to-back or actually simultaneously
for a fight for the Forgotten we have an
end of the year fundraising competition
and so last year we did it and we had a
we invited about a hundred martial arts
academies to raise funds on our behalf
and in eight weeks we raised 135
thousand dollars that's amazing it was
incredible that's amazing
now we're calling this our second annual
fundraising competition last year the
Academy that won the top fundraiser his
name was James right out of martial arts
and more in North Carolina their Academy
had just been hit by a hurricane and so
since it was hit by a hurricane the mats
were ruined and the the equipment all
their pads and mitts and bags were all
molded so they had to get rid of
everything well they wrote they won the
fundraising turn tournament and they got
a better than new gym it was over at
$20,000 gym renovation that century
martial arts did and also zebra
athletics that's cool so literally they
got a better than new Academy
that's very cool that's very cool and it
was because they were fundraising on our
behalf this year we've got a top ten
instead of the top one fundraiser gets a
gets a prize now the top ten get a
martial arts draft pick so martial arts
superstars world champions
whether it's former current UFC or
Bellator champions Hall of Famers
martial arts coaches of the year that
will fly out to their Academy to do a
seminar or a training day or a fan
experience for fundraising on our behalf
that's fucking awesome so we have well
that's so cool of zebra and so cool of
century yeah centuries been around
forever yeah they made the kicking genes
yes I have those that lace up in the
front like a pair still make those yeah
I used to wear the Taekwondo version of
the tournament so used to wear the ones
that laced up in the front
I like those you know because they made
like kickboxing pants make member when
these two have kickboxing used to be
above the waist like pka karate style
since we used to dance to make those
pads for karate tournaments and I still
think they have the best bag they have
the sweet spot is the Muay Thai bank I
have I bought like four different kinds
of Muay Thai packs for this gym here and
the centry one that I have at home is
the best one yeah I have a 150-pound
with the big muy Thai bag it's the best
one it's a sweet spot between not too
soft not too hard just which is perfect
well they're the only ones that actually
make those here super foot yeah I was
just with him
kicking genes how is he doing he's doing
good he was aged from that but I believe
he has yeah he's because he was the
first commentator for the UFC really
yeah is that Chuck down the bottom
there's charters Chuck yeah yes in the
summer too I got to meet him a couple
times I still love meeting him I still
get a fucking boyish thrill just the
fact that he knows who I am I can't
believe it behind your legs oh yeah
but Chuck and build super foot walls I
mean those guys were the real innovators
back in the early days of kickboxing in
America you know when those guys yeah if
you go back and watch some of those
tournaments that those those guys fought
in yeah Chuck Norris was a legitimate
world champion yeah and I never really
knew Dallas Fort Worth had such a big
martial arts oh yeah
huge martial arts background uh Chuck
there and then you know Bill Wallace's
story he had a fucked-up knee and so he
couldn't kick with both legs you'd only
kick with one leg you know yeah so he
developed this insane left like super
foot yeah so he and a hook kick like a
hook kick is a kick that it's very rare
that someone develops out to the point
where you know you can knock people out
with it it's just a weird kick and you
don't really see it very often in MMA
it's just real I mean I think Shawn
Jordan drop yeah Jerry Lewis that's
right the hook kick and like these crazy
cuz Shawn is a tank of a man I mean he's
he's a small heavier short short 510 but
he's at least 260 I was a big fella
he's in the range of 260 so to see him
live those tree trunk like I know were
for LSU yes and the guy could do fucking
backflips these are crazy athlete but to
see him throw hit a hook kick you like
what yeah absolutely you know but it's
such a rare technique Conor throws it he
throws it occasionally he does but bill
super foot Wallace he figured out how to
fuck people up with just one leg and it
was really hard to deal with like that
style of attack that he developed in his
early days I got to see him fight live
ones way way way back in the day well
yeah there it is here it is
well that's crazy crazy that he hit me
dropped him with a hook kick to the
heels a picture of it where's Shawn
these days he was fighting for the PFL
was him but I think I don't know if he's
in this tournament or not I know he was
in the last tournament man so him and
Josh big Josh fought
I think Colton yep decision and so yeah
I guess for now though we're doing that
tournament that competition in last year
at the last 4 or 5 kind of top gyms or
schools competed for it all the way
until midnight of New Year's Eve in
central time because that's when the
cutoff was and the winner was gonna get
their gym renovated so there's four or
five at the end and we raised like 30
grand on the last day because everyone
wanted the gym renovation so this year
we've got a top three prize pack that's
like that the first one gets like a
$25,000 gym renovation from zebra and
century they get featured in black belt
magazine get featured in Marshall it may
success I think Bruce Buffer is gonna
announce him as the winner they're gonna
get a trophy in a medal they're gonna
championship belt for the champion and
then they get the first round draft pick
of guys like Rashad Evans just engag
Cris cyborg Rose namajunas Pat Barry
Rafi Lovato jr. Sean G Laboral
these people are gonna fly out Frank Mir
are gonna fly out and do a seminar at
their their academy or propose anything
whoever it is yeah so whoever is one
through 10 you want to get number one or
number two because you get the top draft
pick what's the top draft pick who's the
top one well whoever raises the most
first they get the they claim the first
draft pick and then they get to choose
between that list of like 20 martial
arts superstars that's what is Dustin
Poirier coming out to your to your gym
or is it Chris cyborg or is it just
engaged or not Evans so when you secure
the first place you get the first-round
draft pick and then all the way down to
10 and then on the individual side
they're gonna get the yeah it's on our
website so it's fight for the free
on.org slash heroes and we're even
missing a few of the
people that are man Richie Bowie there
you go Richie man yeah I thought he
would like that jujitsu planner but he's
going to be in it with Ali Malay we're
missing patrons ant and Austin Vander
furred that's awesome
Oh even even John hackle Minh oh really
when his name is go out and train
someone and put on a bully-proof seminar
yeah
he's got a great Instagram page yeah he
does he's in every podcast such a
fucking character man I just drove down
the what do you call it the PHC post a
civic ozawa oh yeah at PCH yeah and
stopped into the pit and saw him and
yeah slower seeing san luis obispo yeah
that's awesome that's a cool little town
and that is yeah he loves it out there
yeah his wife sweet and they have a
great Academy there yeah he's he's
old-school hardcore training methods he
does like wheel barrels filled with shit
you gotta carry up a hill and stuff all
that kind of stuff yeah I walked into
the boot camp area and it's where his
wife runs the women's boot camp you say
no no you don't to be in here this is
like this is the torture room or
something like that's not a dungeon you
don't about the pit itself is the
outdoor gym and outdoor octagon I have
set up being pretty badass as wild
upstairs he has a podcast studio does he
yeah he's doing a podcast yeah
Jesus Christ everybody's doing a podcast
who's not I'm not yet you know no weird
why should that's what my buddy Jacob
wells wants to do is start a podcast me
why not if you fight for the Forgotten
podcast a great idea I mean it's another
way to raise awareness cool yeah Jacob
is actually buddies with he's a he's a
hilarious guy he's friends with Theo von
Wow
he wrote a few jokes for Theo and Theo
said that they're too dark he couldn't
he couldn't share them but him and Theo
when Theo came to OKC
Jacob and us hung out and anyways Jacob
has started this GoFundMe for radom
because he knows their family in radan
has like eight thousand dollars in
medical bills is going to need
counseling so three to five thousand
dollars of like a counseling budget and
then they want to do something practical
for the family and I've gone to 20
hyperbaric treatments with rain and now
we've had family dinners at my house at
their house at our offices his grandma
can cook she can cook some meatloaf and
she had me over there and they live in
this mobile home park outside Oklahoma
City and the boys so the dad he had
worked in automotive industry and then
at a dealership and then he came and
kind of took over the family restaurant
well it started to struggle the family
restaurant did in anyways his dad now
has two jobs is trying to make ends meet
his mom can't really work because she
has to take him to appointments whether
it's counseling or for his hearing aid
or for his diabetes or for his autism
she's taken with all these different
appointments and so they had to take in
Scotland's mom because of health issues
so the parents now have one of the
grandparents living there so they're in
the bedrooms they had to send raid and
and his brother brought to live with the
other grandparents down the street so
still the same mobile home park but they
put them in like the three-bedroom kind
of nicer one with more space and so
Jacobs like what would really help this
family and bless them in a way cuz his
dad doesn't want to hand out he's not
asking for extra stuff or he didn't come
up with this idea but Jacobs like what
if we could reunite the family so get
his hyperbaric treatment covered get his
counseling covered but then what if we
could even raise funds for a either a
single-wide three-bedroom two-bath or
maybe it's a double-wide that just
reunites the family that gets Brock and
Raiden back in the home with his parents
and so Jacob brought that idea up we
shared with his parents
they started ballin just saying that
that's their greatest need is just to
have the boys back in the home hmm
and so there's this car dealership in
Oklahoma City called hudiburg and
they're really community minded they
give to fight for the Forgotten and they
give to a lot of organizations and so
they have a campaign called hudiburg
helps and so hudiburg helps as
sponsoring this I think they've already
raised like eight thousand nine thousand
dollars it's called stand with Raiden on
go
on me so it's GoFundMe hashtag stand
with Raiden and I think it's already at
eight nine ten thousand dollars of like
the fifty thousand dollar goal so that's
something that we're focused on now my
wife was like hey why are you do fight
for The Forgotten couldn't send funds to
one kid individually that's showing
biased and we have to have like an a a
pool of people to choose from applicants
and it has to be unbiased for us to fund
something so I can rally around him I
can be his friend but we can't pay for
his medical treatment or pay for his
counseling mmm
but GoFundMe can and so Jacob started
this it was his idea and he just wanted
to rally around Radin my wife asked me
why are you doing all this even though
the funds can't be raised for fight for
the Forgotten it's like well you know I
don't know I just I really connect with
Raiden and she goes I know why you're
doing this you're just trying to be the
guy that you needed whenever you were
his age and that that really uh I don't
know that one kind of hit home because
when I was 12 or 13 years old it was
suicidal being bullied it would have
been cool to have someone rally around
me a few years later at coaches that
rallied around me that made me believe
in myself but it's been awesome and
seeing Raphael come alongside Raiden and
his family scholarship um the Steelers
the Pittsburgh Steelers the LA chargers
that Baker Mayfield all these people
posting videos and support forum Mick
Foley as their favorite wrestler WWE
mankind or anyways he made a video for
Raiden and his mom and dad literally
cried because that was their favorite
wrestler and he knows exactly what
they're going through because they're
his son makes Mick Foley son has autism
and so to see that support go out to
raid and like that just blew him away
that's very cool of you man
I don't know what is in store for you in
the next life but I sent some sort of
sainthood I don't know about yeah I just
thought your whole life is dedicated to
helping people it's very humbling man it
really is
I mean everything you do is helping
other people your your goals and your
desires even for you fighting with
people maybe they don't know some people
don't know you got back into fighting so
that you could raise awareness for fight
for the Forgotten and you know became a
world-class heavyweight you really
became a better version of yourself than
you were when you're fighting in the UFC
yeah you know and then I think also
through Rafael Lovato yeah training with
him your jujitsu skills came out big
time yeah big time yeah and I think this
is what I've learned through Raphael and
through a guy out here named ed my lat
that's become a friend these guys say
it's usually it's either Raphael or ad
that says it's usually the person with
the most reasons that usually wins or
the person with the most reasons usually
wins unless you're fighting Anderson
Silva is prime that's true that's true
you must have had a lot of reason so
good man it doesn't matter what you
believe they're gonna fuck you up
yes you know but but but knowing your
why and phony it was for you it's like
how to be I love that that quote you
have in our programs called heroes and
waiting right well you say be the hero
of your own movie will be your own hero
of your own movie and after you become
that hero be a hero for someone else and
let them know they can be the hero of
their own movie yeah and so our premise
is what is a hero it's not someone with
supernatural strength or superhuman
power it's actually someone with a
humble heart that just sees a need and
takes action they don't need Instagram
likes they don't need the exposure what
they do it because it's the right thing
to do you know and so how can we just
see a need and take action make a
difference be the change we want to see
in the world where do you see yourself
in like 10 15 years do you do you see
yourself pursuing this exact same thing
you know past the point where you're
fighting anymore do you see yourself
just continuing with fight for the
Forgotten you think that's probably
going to be your future the fight for
the Forgotten is well so we became an
official 501 C 3 charity last August
mm-hmm so it was more of a passion
project before that now we're official
501 C 3 it was of August we've had since
time more than 3000 donors from all 50
states it's very cool with squarespace's
doing excuse me square and the cash app
is doing without a doubt that's amazing
58 different countries have donated Wow
50 different countries joke I mean
that's the quarter of all you're raising
awareness
well that value sharing the the platform
with me so that I can get the word out
there I mean I won't fight for the
forgotten to outlive me this isn't just
you know ashen project of of
justin-brand I want it to be how many
people are involved in it now and from
the organization's on the organizational
side we have five voting board members
we have seven and we might take that up
to nine and we should tell people that
we're gonna be doing a charity event
yeah in Los Angeles we're just trying to
get a venue we were trying to move it
now to the first quarter of 2020 but
we're gonna do a charity show at one of
the big theaters in LA yeah that's gonna
be incredible yeah that's gonna be so
fun we get together all my funny friends
yeah I had some fun oh I know a lot of
people when you go I just got to record
with Mike Tyson yesterday and he told me
tell you what's up I'm gonna do a show
to it I'm so I couldn't do it during
this month it's so bright oh oh yeah
don't do it this month I'm not funny
that Mike Tyson has become this crazy
weed activist yeah yeah and and his
resort that he was telling you said it's
amazing land with weed what they're
gonna do they're doing concerts there
and shit I could stay there yeah well so
what he's gonna do and hopefully this
isn't I'm not committing him to it but
they kind of said we're gonna do this
for this fundraising tournament that
we're doing right now the competition
they're gonna give away and we'll have
to update people later but for fifteen
twenty twenty-five thousand dollars
someone donating they're gonna get like
an exclusive VIP experience at Tyson
ranch well you hang with Mike Tyson and
you get to get high with a picture and
tour the studio and hotbox and I think
you get to sit in on an episode or so
yeah Wow something like that and it's
gonna be a higher ticket item so that
way they're like it's not just some
crazy person that's very cool
but they're doing that I was thinking
there might be a way we can talk about
this more afterwards but we maybe give a
fan experience to someone at the comedy
show we could give like you VIP
front-row tickets or something like that
if someone donates to help kick-start
our fundraising competition because what
we're doing right now last year raised
135 hundred thirty-seven thousand this
year was shooting for 200 to 250
thousand mm-hmm and then we wanted every
year to have become kind of the premier
fundraising event of the martial arts
world the combat sports world where
everyone knows about this charity event
and you can win once-in-a-lifetime
experiences with martial arts superstars
or personalities right things like that
to where we could build it into a
sustainable this is going to bring in
seven figures a year a million dollars a
year and then that way we know our
budget how many wells we can drill how
much land we can get how many forums we
can start how many kids here we can help
with the martial arts curriculum it
takes us close to 500 dollars to get
into the martial arts academies with the
bully prevention curriculum now as this
expands this fight for The Forgotten
expands and you do more and more work in
the Congo do you anticipate moving to
other parts of the world yeah so we
already in Uganda right we started that
last year but we really kick-started at
April with this big kind of celebration
on new land five acres because of
Dustin's donation we're gonna take that
up to 30 more acres so 35 acres and
Uganda we want to get that to a hundred
we want to get it to even more than that
there's a potential that with fight for
The Forgotten we could potentially start
up a social enterprise or what are those
called be corpse or something like that
where is a social entrepreneurship
gig where we start up maybe a coffee
farm maybe a honey farm in these
mountainous regions
um and the pygmies can have a
sustainable job they love coffee and
honey those are two things that they
love coffee and coffee and honey
that's funny there's this but John G as
a pygmy man grandfather an elder in mah
Baku loo village but John G he's
actually in the in the book a picture
with my wife leaning over and she's
squatting down and she's still as tall
as he is and she's in a full squat and
she hidden so he's a really little guy
but this one time I saw him his
grandkids had just raided a honey hive
or bee hive and they just had honey all
over their hands their arms their faces
- getting stung no they get stung you
get stung like crazy yeah they start a
fire at the bottom and then they throw a
vine around it and then they just walk
up it with your feet and you're holding
onto the vines oh Jesus and it's crazy
you take an ax up there and then you
just start hacking into the tree with
Africanized calling you Oh which are
killer beasts which isn't pets
so there's killer bees or gangster
they're quick they're grown like I'm
stealing honey from killer oh my god and
no one else everyone else is freaked out
by it how many things do they get
hundreds hundreds but it's worth it to
them so they start that fire underneath
and the smoke goes up so that helps keep
them off then if two people climb up it
the sole person's job on the back is to
have these Leafs from a twig and they
just are hitting the bees off of the guy
raiding the hive do you remember when
everybody was worried that Africanized
killer bees were gonna come over here
and kill us all yes that was like a big
fear like 20 years ago how the killer
bees they've been spotted in New Mexico
whoa
they came up from but then they been
treated right and and without him see
bees right I think this yeah we don't
have to worry about those are bees when
they went on the Amazon and came up here
those would be dangerous yeah so these
guys they do this they and honey think
they catch it in a bag or something like
how do they they put it in a basket a
basket the basket handle Oh India's some
guys doing pretty much the same exact
thing those are the killer bees yeah
those are different piece but the same
strategy seems strategy have you
you could reach in and grab bees this
guy's an asshole what are you doing man
have you guys seen that there's a
certain type of honey that has some sort
of psychedelic effect and it's a very
popular honey I want to say Nepal
somewhere
is it Nepal yeah and these guys they
climb up to get this shit it's like on
the side of cliffs like see you have
anything else and yeah see these guys
use these ropes to climb up to get that
rope looks sketchy as fuck that looks
like some homemade shit right there
and so they this honey hunting work is
very mean it's the craziest thing I've
seen people do but these guys this honey
200 feet in the air man this is a
different kind of honey for some reason
this honey makes you trip balls of
course it's a vice documentary yeah the
Nepalese honey that makes people
hallucinate so they add something into
it no no no no no it has to do with
whatever these plants these guys are the
pollens are yeah so they're making a
psychedelic honey just naturally yes
natural so you can put it in your tea
and meet Jesus that seems dangerous
um so and maybe maybe it's like a mild
micro dosing type oh that's true
I don't know so yeah so like that
that's what they just grab it and eat in
honeycombs to the other Center yeah so
these kids I think there's a video on my
youtube Jaime's you can find out of
these kids climbing these trees I think
it's just Justin ran fight for the
Forgotten is the YouTube channel and
there's this kid that I put a GoPro on
his head because he was just climbing
trees like crazy onto the canopy of the
rainforest he's like nine years old oh
my god
mine's 200 feet in the air and he looks
down at us it's a 12-minute video or
something we could fast-forward to any
kind of safety harness right no he's
literally just doing a shimmying up it
he doesn't even have a bomb he's doing
it with his arms in his thighs he's nine
he's just my daughter scaling it just
scaling and he looks down on us I can
barely see him in the tree still he's
like over 200 feet tall and and what's
he getting up there will he practice for
to difference he had his bow and arrow
up there so he could shoot nest and
shoot birds out of nest in the trees
from 200 feet up tuna feet up but he's
shooting to other trees oh my god
and then they that's how they collect
honey look at them this is a little guy
this is him going from a little tree to
getting over to a huge tree next to it
but that's him but bow fee and I lived
there for 3 months I think in this
village and he's seriously just scaling
the tree yeah it's a 12-minute video
what
it's wild if we can't have sound it's
just him breathing hi guys Oh sweatin
and he just keeps going until he gets
and once he gets to the big part of the
tree I should go back
oops up back a little bit more because
he starts just zooming down he gets to
the top and looks down at us and
whenever you see us I think this is
where it is maybe when whenever he looks
down look at that oh hi oh boy
and that's not even when he was at the
very top and he's just using his hands
and feet yeah he literally has no rope
no vine don't you think you should be
under him to catch him yeah but no from
200 feet up break your arms yeah that's
like squish me there's a there's one
other video oh yeah this right here look
at this sharpshooters of these little
mice they put mice in the middle of the
village and they shoot down with bows
and arrows yep um that seems mean he got
reduce eat them yeah yeah the UNAM so
that's their target practice so they
show grass grass I've that's a rat by
the way a mouse yeah they'd shoot these
rats and then they eat them yep and
actually not this one you eaten right I
have four so like not good it's finished
Ricky I've had I've had Python
I've had a cobra you a cobra I've had
monkey I think I'm lucky on there
that's dark is there is there a video of
the kid with the machete what's it like
eating monkey does that freak you out
eat one your ancestor this was right
before the Ebola breakup oh I didn't
know about it and then also an Ebola and
they're like it's from eating monkeys oh
Jesus I think I'll tell me acute a bola
we always eat monkeys none of us have
ever had Ebola what kind of what method
of cooking is it like a smoked monkey I
just smoked it yeah wrap it a banana
leaf yeah it's a very like stringy hard
muscular animal yeah my friend Steve
Rinella had some I think in Guyana
he uh he ate a monkey see this look at
this kid here
he's with a machete the machetes as long
as that kid is tall was he doing
chopping down this tree I just tried it
on the tree for firewood mmm but that
kid looks like he's five years old if
that he's younger than that I think how
old well he might be five maybe four
four or five and they're letting him use
a machete to chop down a fucking tree do
because this kid climb the trees with
that the kid believe came I saw climb
that tree he was doing that with bows
and arrows oh my god with bows and
arrows here so hard look here that's
just hanging out by him tell us the kid
is right next to him how many of these
guys that live in these villages are
injured uh
I mean they get injured from time to
time yeah but they're super smart with
the blades I mean they grow up with mean
throats like getting cut I mean just
injured injured there's no medical man
they roll their ankles through the
forest they when they're climbing stuff
need ligaments yeah what do they wind up
doing
they just heal heal a lot like by giving
it rest what's kind of cool about the
forest life or the village life is they
literally they are up early
right when the sun's coming up they're
they're up they're down when the Sun
Goes Down and so they're in tune with
nature yeah 2016 rhythms Akkadian
rhythms was looking for yeah and then
midday during the heat of the day right
3:00 to 5:00 p.m.
they're normally just chillin napping
in their Hut to where they're out of the
Sun and so they're up working before
that they rest and if they need to go
back out before the sun's down they go
back out a second time hunting gathering
come back in prepare it what's that
primary look what what are they trying
to hunt well uh so for us antelope
forest hog or wild hog out there lots of
different kinds of birds parrots
different things like that only using
bows and arrows hmm home in bows now's
right
homemade yeah definitely in the
dangerous ones I'm gonna have to bring
you a bow and arrow I haven't had done
that I have one that is that I really
love I'll see if I can get to get you on
but they will give you two arrows one
has a metal blade and one's just a
sharpened tip and then they ask you
which one would you use on an antelope
and you choose which one you you choose
and then you ask which one would you use
on a bird and then you choose which one
would you think between a blade and the
sharpened wood which one would you use
on the antelope you'd use a blade okay
and then on a bird which one would you
sharp and stick
yeah that's what makes sense to our mind
right yeah it's actually the opposite
how come they use the metal on the bird
because that's going to kill the bird
right they use the wooden tip because
they they dip that in poison Oh Jean and
so that's what they take the bigger
animals out with as I say so they just
have to hit it oh yeah anywhere in its
body and it's in there
now does that poison infect them no Nate
it looks out it's out of this there's
these two things it's these berries and
these not roots but it's a like a root
fruit like a potato it's this poisonous
black potato that like they mash up and
if you if you mess with that stuff the
potato gets smashed or something in that
oil or that whatever casaba neck asaba
because casabas is the Sambas root but
also it gets strychnine yeah you have to
boil it forever
they have to do all this shit too
cassava and then then the wayside yes
and this is a
potato they know they use the strychnine
from cassava to poison things as well
Wow and they have like a bucket in
Rinella show Steve Bernal show the
meat-eater which is on it is on Netflix
and know the mediator is his website
meat eater is a Netflix show but he went
to Guyana and he's done a couple trips
to different I think Bolivia as well and
when he goes to the jungle like this
they have this incredibly intricate
process for cooking and making this
cassava edible and these buckets they
have of this sort of processed stuff as
they're doing it is fucking hugely toxic
yeah and it's just laying around yeah
and my kids are playing near it and the
the kids have to be so careful yeah the
parents have to be so careful with the
poison yeah because once they dip those
tips of those arrows they don't come
back with them they dispose of them
really out in the force just too
dangerous too dangerous to have around
the kids the time yeah cuz toddlers are
walking around with bows and arrows
already there they have a bow and arrow
before they're able to walk so they're
just the sharpened wooden tips without
the poison dip down and so it's it's
awesome and their way of life is so
incredible and so that's what we're
trying to help the kings of Uganda right
now so our trip even Brady who you know
Brady was messed up so all of us were um
they're just sick over there saying what
do you mean I messed up culture shock oh
and not just culture shock but what is
it whenever you it's not just PTSD like
just jolt it with with devastation of
like in shock
and shock yeah in fact we we could play
that one video now it's a documentary
trailer that cash app helped fund I mean
friends of Joe Rogan and this trailer
video is just from our last trip to
Uganda
it's got sound but I'll speak over it
but it kind of sums it all up this
little boy named Paolo you'll see in his
eyes
what I
when you see this boy's eyes you'll know
just some of the devastation that he's
gone through and seen you can see like
the eyes are the windows to our soul you
can see the heart heartbreak in this kid
I think it's called the bots wha
trailer video or something like that
Jamie but it's um it's got an opening
where it's just like things to cash app
but then it shows how long is their
studio it's about a minute and a half
okay well we'll play this then we got to
wrap this thing yeah okay got one more
thing to give you
so that is in the simile key National
Forest that's King Zito and the red but
they were driven from their ancestral
home and they're struggling to survive
and this is on that one acre of land
that they live on that's some mushrooms
but they live in eight structures on
this one acre of land and forced to live
in this unknown village and literally
don't have any food or clean water
that's where they live in those shelters
that's what they've been given when they
were kicked out of the forest but
there's no way that's the sewage running
through their village and just being
abused
yeah beyond imagination because they
think they're cure for HIV that woman
was raped because these men thought they
would be cured that's a little Palo
there you can see in his eyes and
thought they'd be cured by having sex
with her yep we're by collecting their
blood and Sao Paulo was held down and is
that's the new land five acres of land
that we were able to get them so this is
a celebration just kind of transitioning
into dancing with the drums and the
leaves but now they have hope that
they're gonna survive and here's that
the school where they're getting new
water and they're in class for the first
time they were told that they couldn't
go to school that they wouldn't be that
they couldn't learn and now actually the
top five students at the school over the
last six years are all bathua pygmy
children that's the new well that
they're drinking from one of them so
this just celebration they're learning
some MMA and we're there to help come
alongside them and say hey how can we
with our vision to defeat hate with love
our mission to knock out bullying
worldwide how can we do this in a
practical sustainable way and so yeah
Joe like that little boy Paulo that you
saw has scars on him from people holding
him down and slicing him open collecting
his blood because they think he's the
cure for HIV or the women they're being
sexually assaulted some terrible stuff
but what we want to do to kind of sum up
this documentary when we get there is is
have newly informed them
back in school them farming for
themselves them selling it at the
markets and then yeah and then also
stateside here so kind of the two things
to wrap up two or three ways that people
could support if your martial arts
academy jiu-jitsu school you do MMA
taekwondo wrestling boxing any of that
you can join our end of the year
fundraising competition in the top ten
are gonna win incredible prizes gym
renovations for every there's also a
raffle prize where every $500 you raise
you get the opportunity to have your gym
transformed and this is a hall on which
light through the forgotten calm so for
the fight forgotten org
I'll take you there too okay so five or
go to heroes
okay if if you're an individual and you
want to support that way we just started
our Fight Club
and so our fight for the Forgotten Fight
Club first rule is you do speak about
Fight Club and so if you don't but yeah
it's our monthly giving Club people can
give five dollars so the price of a lot
a and that would make us a sustainable
nonprofit where we know what our budget
is every single month how many wells we
can drill how much land we can get how
many people here stateside and this
again all on fight for the ground fight
for the Forgotten or the Fight Club is
on fight for the Forgotten org that's
our monthly giving Club and then if you
want to support Raiden there's that
GoFundMe and you just look up the
hashtag stand with Raiden and you can
give to him personally smell rate ra y
de n so it's stand with Raiden and you
can go check out my Instagram the big
pygmy or Twitter the big pygmy and that
will point you into the direction of
stand with Raiden and then as we come to
a close with silver October out one
thing for you oh it's just one thing
it's a little big though
whoa we're gonna have to go over here
what is that
this is from another friend Jesus Christ
you got a lot of friends bro
what happens when you're a nice guy Oh
whiskey how dare you so I know so rap
over it's coming glasses man what is
that made out of I don't know you tell
me
liberal tears oh it's right next to it
it's mad at the bottom of a Johnny
Walker general aqua-blue
Wow so that's the blue which is like 18
or 20 years way of recycling the bottom
of these containers - it's actually here
check this out real quick
okay oh yeah you can have some of that
no not super October I can't oh it's
fight for the Forgotten coasters very
cool and so this right here just be
cycled bottles oh this guy literally
recycles these he's a fundraiser full
time for nonprofits so he makes is his
last is out of the bottles that's very
cool
how did Tito's all that he gives 75%
back to fight for the Forgotten dude
your your kindness and your generosity
has inspired a shitload of people man
it's it's a beautiful thing it really is
I can't thank you enough please man I
can't thank you enough um I always feel
like a piece of shit when you come here
no oh please compare myself my god it's
guys he's going to get malaria and
fucking worms and he's always traveling
over there helping people and your focus
is always about helping people that are
in need it's it's it's very humbling man
it really is it's very admirable well
thank you I appreciate you always have a
home here man any time you come on and
talk about something they appreciate you
thank you brother
appreciate it I'll talk to you soon yeah
absolutely everybody excited for the
comedy show hell yeah
[Applause]
[Music]